BUILD.md, before:

<!-- markdownlint-disable-file code-block-style -->
# Linkerd2 Development Guide

:balloon: Welcome to the Linkerd2 development guide! :wave:

This document will help you build and run Linkerd2 from source. More information
about testing from source can be found in the [TEST.md](TEST.md) guide.

## Table of contents

- [Repo Layout](#repo-layout)
  - [Control Plane (Go/React)](#control-plane-goreact)
  - [Data Plane (Rust)](#data-plane-rust)
- [Components](#components)
- [Development configurations](#development-configurations)
  - [Comprehensive](#comprehensive)
    - [Deploying Control Plane components with Tracing](#deploying-control-plane-components-with-tracing)
  - [Publishing Images](#publishing-images)
  - [Go](#go)
    - [A note about Go run](#a-note-about-go-run)
    - [Lint](#lint)
    - [Formatting](#formatting)
    - [Building the CLI for development](#building-the-cli-for-development)
    - [Running the control plane for development](#running-the-control-plane-for-development)
    - [Running the Tap APIService for development](#debugging-the-tap-apiservice-for-development)
    - [Generating CLI docs](#generating-cli-docs)
  - [Web](#web)
    - [First time setup](#first-time-setup)
    - [Run web standalone](#run-web-standalone)
    - [Webpack dev server](#webpack-dev-server)
    - [JavaScript dependencies](#javascript-dependencies)
    - [Translations](#translations)
  - [Rust](#rust)
    - [Docker](#docker)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
  - [Updating protobuf dependencies](#updating-protobuf-dependencies)
  - [Updating ServiceProfile generated
    code](#updating-serviceprofile-generated-code)
- [Linkerd Helm Chart](#linkerd-helm-chart)
  - [Extensions Helm charts](#extensions-helm-charts)
  - [Making changes to the chart templates](#making-changes-to-the-chart-templates)
  - [Annotating values.yaml](#annotating-valuesyaml)
  - [Markdown templates](#markdown-templates)

## Repo layout

Linkerd2 is primarily written in Rust, Go, and React. At its core is a
high-performance data plane written in Rust. The control plane components and
its extensions are written in Go. The dashboard UI is a React application.

### Control Plane (Go/React)

- [`cli`](cli): Command-line `linkerd` utility, view and drive the control
  plane.
- [`controller`](controller)
  - [`destination`](controller/api/destination): Accepts requests from `proxy`
    instances and serves service discovery information.
  - [`proxy-injector`](controller/proxy-injector): Mutating webhook triggered by
    pods creation, that injects the proxy container as a sidecar.
  - [`identity`](controller/identity): Provides a CA to distribute certificates
    to proxies for them to establish mTLS connections between them.
- [`viz extension`](viz)
  - [`metrics-api`](viz/metrics-api): Accepts requests from API clients such as
    cli and web, serving metrics from the proxies in the cluster through
    Prometheus queries.
  - [`tap`](viz/tap/api): Provides a live pipeline of requests.
  - [`tap-injector`](viz/tap/injector): Mutating webhook triggered by pods
    creation, that injects metadata into the proxy container in order to enable
    tap.
  - [`web`](web): Provides a UI dashboard to view and drive the control plane.
- [`multicluster extension`](multicluster)
  - [`linkerd-gateway`]: Accepts requests from other clusters and forwards them
    to the appropriate destination in the local cluster.
  - [`linkerd-service-mirror-xxx`](multicluster/service-mirror): Controller
    observing the labeling of exported services in the target cluster, each one
    for which it will create a mirrored service in the local cluster.
- [`jaeger extension`](jaeger)
  - [`jaeger-injector`](jaeger/injector): Mutating webhook triggered by pods
    creation, that expands the proxy container for it to produce tracing spans.

### Data Plane (Rust)

- [`linkerd2-proxy`](https://github.com/linkerd/linkerd2-proxy): Rust source
  code for the proxy lives in the linkerd2-proxy repo.
- [`linkerd2-proxy-api`](https://github.com/linkerd/linkerd2-proxy-api):
  Protobuf definitions for the data plane APIs live in the linkerd2-proxy-api
  repo.

## Components

![Linkerd2 Components](https://g.gravizo.com/source/svg/linkerd2_components?https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Flinkerd%2Flinkerd2%2Fmain%2FBUILD.md)

<!-- markdownlint-disable no-inline-html -->
<details>
<summary></summary>
linkerd2_components
  digraph G {
    rankdir=LR;

    node [style=filled, shape=rect];

    "cli" [color=lightblue];
    "destination" [color=lightblue];
    "identity" [color=lightblue];
    "metrics-api" [color=lightblue];
    "tap" [color=lightblue];
    "web" [color=lightblue];

    "proxy" [color=orange];

    "cli" -> "metrics-api";
    "cli" -> "tap";

    "web" -> "metrics-api";
    "web" -> "tap";
    "web" -> "grafana";

    "metrics-api" -> "prometheus";

    "tap" -> "proxy";

    "proxy" -> "destination";
    "proxy" -> "identity";

    "identity" -> "kubernetes api"

    "destination" -> "kubernetes api";

    "grafana" -> "prometheus";
    "prometheus" -> "proxy";
  }
linkerd2_components
</details>
<!-- markdownlint-enable no-inline-html -->

## Development configurations

Depending on use case, there are several configurations with which to develop
and run Linkerd2:

- [Comprehensive](#comprehensive): Integrated configuration using k3d, most
  closely matches release.
- [Web](#web): Development of the Linkerd2 Dashboard.

### Comprehensive

This configuration builds all Linkerd2 components in Docker images, and deploys
them onto a k3d cluster. This setup most closely parallels our recommended
production installation, documented in [Getting
Started](https://linkerd.io/2/getting-started/).

Note that you need to have first installed docker buildx, as explained
[buildx docs](https://github.com/docker/buildx).

```bash
# create the k3d cluster
bin/k3d cluster create

# build all docker images
bin/docker-build

# load all the images into k3d
bin/image-load --k3d

# install linkerd
bin/linkerd install --crds | kubectl apply -f -
bin/linkerd install | kubectl apply -f -

# wait for the core components to be ready, then install linkerd-viz
bin/linkerd viz install | kubectl apply -f -

# in order to use `linkerd viz tap` against control plane components, you need
# to restart them (so that the tap-injector enables tap on their proxies)
kubectl -n linkerd rollout restart deploy

# verify cli and server versions
bin/linkerd version

# validate installation
bin/linkerd check --expected-version $(bin/root-tag)

# view linkerd dashboard
bin/linkerd viz dashboard

# install the demo app
curl https://run.linkerd.io/emojivoto.yml | bin/linkerd inject - | kubectl apply -f -

# port-forward the demo app's frontend to see it at http://localhost:8080
kubectl -n emojivoto port-forward svc/web-svc 8080:80

# view details per deployment
bin/linkerd viz -n emojivoto stat deployments

# view a live pipeline of requests
bin/linkerd viz -n emojivoto tap deploy voting
```

#### Deploying Control Plane components with Tracing

Control Plane components have the `trace-collector` flag used to enable
[Distributed Tracing](https://opentracing.io/docs/overview/what-is-tracing/) for
development purposes. It can be enabled globally i.e Control plane components
and their proxies by using the `--set controlPlaneTracing=true` installation
flag.

This will configure all the components to send the traces at
`collector.{{.Values.controlPlaneTracingNamespace}}.svc.{{.Values.ClusterDomain}}:4317`

```bash

# install Linkerd with tracing
linkerd install --set controlPlaneTracing=true | kubectl apply -f -

# install the Jaeger extension
linkerd jaeger install | kubectl apply -f -

# restart the control plane components so that the jaeger-injector enables
# tracing in their proxies
kubectl -n linkerd rollout restart deploy
```

### Publishing images

The example above builds and loads the docker images into k3d. For testing your
built images outside your local environment, you need to publish your images so
they become accessible in those external environments.

To signal `bin/docker-build` or any of the more specific scripts
`bin/docker-build-*` what registry to use, just set the environment variable
`DOCKER_REGISTRY` (which defaults to the official registry `cr.l5d.io/linkerd`).
After having pushed those images through the usual means (`docker push`) you'll
have to pass the `--registry` flag to `linkerd install` with a value  matching
your registry. Extensions don't have that flag and instead you need to use the
equivalent Helm value; e.g. for Viz `linkerd viz install --set
defaultRegistry=...`.

### Go

#### A note about Go run

Our instructions use a [`bin/go-run`](bin/go-run) script in lieu `go run`. This
is a convenience script that leverages caching via `go build` to make your
build/run/debug loop faster.

In general, replace commands like this:

```bash
go run cli/main.go check
```

with this:

```bash
bin/go-run cli check
```

That is equivalent to running `linkerd check` using the code on your branch.

#### Lint

To analyze and lint the Go code using golangci-lint, run:

```bash
golangci-lint run
```

#### Formatting

All Go source code is formatted with `goimports`. The version of `goimports`
used by this project is specified in `go.mod`. To ensure you have the same
version installed, run `go install -mod=readonly
golang.org/x/tools/cmd/goimports`. It's recommended that you set your IDE or
other development tools to use `goimports`. Formatting is checked during CI by
the `bin/fmt` script.

#### Building the CLI for development

The script for building the CLI binaries using docker is
`bin/docker-build-cli-bin`. This will also be called indirectly when calling
`bin/docker-build`. By default it creates binaries for your current host's
OS/arch.

To cross-build targeting a different OS or architecture, set the environment
variable `DOCKER_TARGET` according to any of the final stages available in
[cli/Dockerfile](cli/Dockerfile).

For local development and a faster edit-build-test cycle you can build directly
without going through a docker container by calling `bin/build-cli-bin`.

If you set the environment variable `LINKERD_LOCAL_BUILD_CLI=1` then
`bin/docker-build` will use this last method for the step that builds the CLI.

#### Running the control plane for development

Linkerd2's control plane is composed of several Go microservices. You can run
these components in a Kubernetes cluster, or even locally.

To run an individual component locally, you can use the `go-run` command, and
pass in valid Kubernetes credentials via the `-kubeconfig` flag. For instance,
to run the destination service locally, run:

```bash
bin/go-run controller/cmd destination -kubeconfig ~/.kube/config -log-level debug
```

You can send test requests to the destination service using the
`destination-client` in the `controller/script` directory. For instance:

```bash
bin/go-run controller/script/destination-client -path hello.default.svc.cluster.local:80
```

##### Debugging the Tap APIService for development

The Tap APIService is a Kubernetes extension API server, so it can be
challenging to run outside the cluster. The most straightforward workflow is to
simply test changes by building and loading the container image as explained in
the [comprehensive configuration](#comprehensive) section above (in order to
just build this component use `bin/docker-build-tap`).

#### Generating CLI docs

The [documentation](https://linkerd.io/2/cli/) for the CLI tool is partially
generated from YAML. This can be generated by running the `linkerd doc` command.

### Web

This is a React app fronting a Go process. It uses webpack to bundle assets, and
postcss to transform css.

These commands assume working [Go](https://golang.org) and
[Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com) environments.

#### First time setup

1. Install [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com) and use it to install JS dependencies:

    ```bash
    brew install yarn
    bin/web setup
    ```

2. Install Linkerd on a Kubernetes cluster.

#### Run web standalone

```bash
bin/web run
```

The web server will be running on `localhost:7777`.

#### Webpack dev server

To develop with a webpack dev server:

1. Start the development server.

    ```bash
    bin/web dev
    ```

    Note: this will start up:

    - `web` on :7777. This is the golang process that serves the dashboard.
    - `webpack-dev-server` on :8080 to manage rebuilding/reloading of the
      javascript.
    - `metrics-api` is port-forwarded from the Kubernetes cluster via `kubectl`
      on :8085

2. Go to [http://localhost:7777](http://localhost:7777) to see everything
   running.

#### JavaScript dependencies

To add a JS dependency:

```bash
cd web/app
yarn add [dep]
```

#### Translations

To add a locale:

```bash
cd web/app
yarn lingui add-locale [locales...] # will create a messages.json file for new locale(s)
```

To extract message keys from existing components:

```bash
cd web/app
yarn lingui extract
...
yarn lingui compile # done automatically in bin/web run
```

Finally, make sure the new locale is also referred in the following places:

- Under the `lingui` section in `package.json`
- In the `make-plural/plurals` import in `index.js`
- In the `langOptions` object in `index.js`

### Rust

All Rust development happens in the
[`linkerd2-proxy`](https://github.com/linkerd/linkerd2-proxy) repo.

#### Docker

The `bin/docker-build-proxy` script builds the proxy by pulling a pre-published
proxy binary:

```bash
bin/docker-build-proxy
```

#### Locally built proxy

If you want to deploy a locally built proxy, you can build it in the
[`linkerd2-proxy`](https://github.com/linkerd/linkerd2-proxy) repo by running:

```bash
DOCKER_TAG=cr.l5d.io/linkerd/proxy:dev make docker
```

Then, in this repo, run:

```bash
./bin/k3d image import cr.l5d.io/linkerd/proxy:dev
```

Now, to make a pod use your image, add the following annotations to it:

```yaml
config.linkerd.io/proxy-version: dev
```

## Dependencies

### Updating protobuf dependencies

 If you make Protobuf changes, run:

 ```bash
bin/protoc-go.sh
```

### Updating ServiceProfile generated code

The [ServiceProfile client code](./controller/gen/client) is generated by
[`bin/update-codegen.sh`](bin/update-codegen.sh), which depends on [K8s
code-generator](https://github.com/kubernetes/code-generator), which does not
yet support Go Modules. To re-generate this code, check out this repo into your
`GOPATH`:

```bash
go get -u github.com/linkerd/linkerd2
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/linkerd/linkerd2
bin/update-codegen.sh
```

## Linkerd Helm chart

The Linkerd control plane chart is located in the
[`charts/linkerd2`](charts/linkerd2) folder. The [`charts/patch`](charts/patch)
chart consists of the Linkerd proxy specification, which is used by the proxy
injector to inject the proxy container. Both charts depend on the partials
subchart which can be found in the [`charts/partials`](charts/partials) folder.

Note that the `charts/linkerd2/values.yaml` file contains a placeholder
`linkerdVersionValue` that you need to replace with an appropriate string (like
`edge-20.2.2`) before proceeding.

During development, please use the [`bin/helm`](bin/helm) wrapper script to
invoke the Helm commands. For example,

```bash
bin/helm install linkerd2 charts/linkerd2
```

This ensures that you use the same Helm version as that of the Linkerd CI
system.

For general instructions on how to install the charts check out the
[docs](https://linkerd.io/2/tasks/install-helm/). You also need to supply or
generate your own certificates to use the chart, as explained in the
[Generate Certificates task](https://linkerd.io/2/tasks/generate-certificates/).

### Extensions Helm charts

Extensions provide each their own chart:

- Viz: [`viz/charts/linkerd-viz`](viz/charts/linkerd-viz)
- Multicluster:
  [`multicluster/charts/linkerd-multicluster`](multicluster/charts/linkerd-multicluster)
- Jaeger: [`jaeger/charts/linkerd-jaeger`](jaeger/charts/linkerd-jaeger)

### Making changes to the chart templates

Whenever you make changes to the files under
[`charts/linkerd2/templates`](charts/linkerd2/templates) or its dependency
[`charts/partials`](charts/partials), make sure to run
[`bin/helm-build`](bin/helm-build) which will refresh the dependencies and lint
the templates.

### Annotating values.yaml

To allow helm-docs to properly document the values in `values.yaml` a descriptive
comment is required. This can be done in two ways.
Either comment the value directly above with
`# -- This is a really nice value` where the double dashes automatically
annotates the value. Another explicit usage is to type out the value name.
`# global.MyNiceValue -- I really like this value`

### Markdown templates

In order to accommodate for extra data that might not have a proper place in the
´values.yaml´ file the corresponding ´README.md.gotmpl´ can be modified for each
chart. This template allows the standard markdown syntax as well as the go
templating functions. Checkout
[helm-docs](https://github.com/norwoodj/helm-docs) for more info.

Commit message:

feat!(tracing): Improve control plane tracing configuration
The current control plane tracing relies on the linkerd-jaeger extension, and does not work when using the native tracing configuration.

This removes the previous configs, and adds new control plane tracing config that mirrors the existing proxy tracing configs.

The previous configuration was meant entirely for internal testing purposes, and shouldn't be subject to any breaking change guarantees.

Signed-off-by: Scott Fleener <scott@buoyant.io>

BUILD.md, after:

<!-- markdownlint-disable-file code-block-style -->
# Linkerd2 Development Guide

:balloon: Welcome to the Linkerd2 development guide! :wave:

This document will help you build and run Linkerd2 from source. More information
about testing from source can be found in the [TEST.md](TEST.md) guide.

## Table of contents

- [Repo Layout](#repo-layout)
  - [Control Plane (Go/React)](#control-plane-goreact)
  - [Data Plane (Rust)](#data-plane-rust)
- [Components](#components)
- [Development configurations](#development-configurations)
  - [Comprehensive](#comprehensive)
    - [Deploying Control Plane components with Tracing](#deploying-control-plane-components-with-tracing)
  - [Publishing Images](#publishing-images)
  - [Go](#go)
    - [A note about Go run](#a-note-about-go-run)
    - [Lint](#lint)
    - [Formatting](#formatting)
    - [Building the CLI for development](#building-the-cli-for-development)
    - [Running the control plane for development](#running-the-control-plane-for-development)
    - [Running the Tap APIService for development](#debugging-the-tap-apiservice-for-development)
    - [Generating CLI docs](#generating-cli-docs)
  - [Web](#web)
    - [First time setup](#first-time-setup)
    - [Run web standalone](#run-web-standalone)
    - [Webpack dev server](#webpack-dev-server)
    - [JavaScript dependencies](#javascript-dependencies)
    - [Translations](#translations)
  - [Rust](#rust)
    - [Docker](#docker)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
  - [Updating protobuf dependencies](#updating-protobuf-dependencies)
  - [Updating ServiceProfile generated
    code](#updating-serviceprofile-generated-code)
- [Linkerd Helm Chart](#linkerd-helm-chart)
  - [Extensions Helm charts](#extensions-helm-charts)
  - [Making changes to the chart templates](#making-changes-to-the-chart-templates)
  - [Annotating values.yaml](#annotating-valuesyaml)
  - [Markdown templates](#markdown-templates)

## Repo layout

Linkerd2 is primarily written in Rust, Go, and React. At its core is a
high-performance data plane written in Rust. The control plane components and
its extensions are written in Go. The dashboard UI is a React application.

### Control Plane (Go/React)

- [`cli`](cli): Command-line `linkerd` utility, view and drive the control
  plane.
- [`controller`](controller)
  - [`destination`](controller/api/destination): Accepts requests from `proxy`
    instances and serves service discovery information.
  - [`proxy-injector`](controller/proxy-injector): Mutating webhook triggered by
    pods creation, that injects the proxy container as a sidecar.
  - [`identity`](controller/identity): Provides a CA to distribute certificates
    to proxies for them to establish mTLS connections between them.
- [`viz extension`](viz)
  - [`metrics-api`](viz/metrics-api): Accepts requests from API clients such as
    cli and web, serving metrics from the proxies in the cluster through
    Prometheus queries.
  - [`tap`](viz/tap/api): Provides a live pipeline of requests.
  - [`tap-injector`](viz/tap/injector): Mutating webhook triggered by pods
    creation, that injects metadata into the proxy container in order to enable
    tap.
  - [`web`](web): Provides a UI dashboard to view and drive the control plane.
- [`multicluster extension`](multicluster)
  - [`linkerd-gateway`]: Accepts requests from other clusters and forwards them
    to the appropriate destination in the local cluster.
  - [`linkerd-service-mirror-xxx`](multicluster/service-mirror): Controller
    observing the labeling of exported services in the target cluster, each one
    for which it will create a mirrored service in the local cluster.
- [`jaeger extension`](jaeger)
  - [`jaeger-injector`](jaeger/injector): Mutating webhook triggered by pods
    creation, that expands the proxy container for it to produce tracing spans.

### Data Plane (Rust)

- [`linkerd2-proxy`](https://github.com/linkerd/linkerd2-proxy): Rust source
  code for the proxy lives in the linkerd2-proxy repo.
- [`linkerd2-proxy-api`](https://github.com/linkerd/linkerd2-proxy-api):
  Protobuf definitions for the data plane APIs live in the linkerd2-proxy-api
  repo.

## Components

![Linkerd2 Components](https://g.gravizo.com/source/svg/linkerd2_components?https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Flinkerd%2Flinkerd2%2Fmain%2FBUILD.md)

<!-- markdownlint-disable no-inline-html -->
<details>
<summary></summary>
linkerd2_components
  digraph G {
    rankdir=LR;

    node [style=filled, shape=rect];

    "cli" [color=lightblue];
    "destination" [color=lightblue];
    "identity" [color=lightblue];
    "metrics-api" [color=lightblue];
    "tap" [color=lightblue];
    "web" [color=lightblue];

    "proxy" [color=orange];

    "cli" -> "metrics-api";
    "cli" -> "tap";

    "web" -> "metrics-api";
    "web" -> "tap";
    "web" -> "grafana";

    "metrics-api" -> "prometheus";

    "tap" -> "proxy";

    "proxy" -> "destination";
    "proxy" -> "identity";

    "identity" -> "kubernetes api"

    "destination" -> "kubernetes api";

    "grafana" -> "prometheus";
    "prometheus" -> "proxy";
  }
linkerd2_components
</details>
<!-- markdownlint-enable no-inline-html -->

## Development configurations

Depending on use case, there are several configurations with which to develop
and run Linkerd2:

- [Comprehensive](#comprehensive): Integrated configuration using k3d, most
  closely matches release.
- [Web](#web): Development of the Linkerd2 Dashboard.

### Comprehensive

This configuration builds all Linkerd2 components in Docker images, and deploys
them onto a k3d cluster. This setup most closely parallels our recommended
production installation, documented in [Getting
Started](https://linkerd.io/2/getting-started/).

Note that you need to have first installed docker buildx, as explained
[buildx docs](https://github.com/docker/buildx).

```bash
# create the k3d cluster
bin/k3d cluster create

# build all docker images
bin/docker-build

# load all the images into k3d
bin/image-load --k3d

# install linkerd
bin/linkerd install --crds | kubectl apply -f -
bin/linkerd install | kubectl apply -f -

# wait for the core components to be ready, then install linkerd-viz
bin/linkerd viz install | kubectl apply -f -

# in order to use `linkerd viz tap` against control plane components, you need
# to restart them (so that the tap-injector enables tap on their proxies)
kubectl -n linkerd rollout restart deploy

# verify cli and server versions
bin/linkerd version

# validate installation
bin/linkerd check --expected-version $(bin/root-tag)

# view linkerd dashboard
bin/linkerd viz dashboard

# install the demo app
curl https://run.linkerd.io/emojivoto.yml | bin/linkerd inject - | kubectl apply -f -

# port-forward the demo app's frontend to see it at http://localhost:8080
kubectl -n emojivoto port-forward svc/web-svc 8080:80

# view details per deployment
bin/linkerd viz -n emojivoto stat deployments

# view a live pipeline of requests
bin/linkerd viz -n emojivoto tap deploy voting
```

#### Deploying Control Plane components with Tracing

Control Plane components have the `trace-collector` flag used to enable
[Distributed Tracing](https://opentracing.io/docs/overview/what-is-tracing/)
for  development purposes. It can be enabled globally i.e Control plane
components  and their proxies by using the
`--set controller.tracing.enable=true` installation flag.

This will configure all the components to send the traces to the collector you
have configured for your cluster.

```bash

# install Linkerd with tracing
linkerd install \
  --set controller.tracing.enable=true \
  --set controller.tracing.collector.endpoint=<your trace collector endpoint> \
  | kubectl apply -f -
```

### Publishing images

The example above builds and loads the docker images into k3d. For testing your
built images outside your local environment, you need to publish your images so
they become accessible in those external environments.

To signal `bin/docker-build` or any of the more specific scripts
`bin/docker-build-*` what registry to use, just set the environment variable
`DOCKER_REGISTRY` (which defaults to the official registry `cr.l5d.io/linkerd`).
After having pushed those images through the usual means (`docker push`) you'll
have to pass the `--registry` flag to `linkerd install` with a value  matching
your registry. Extensions don't have that flag and instead you need to use the
equivalent Helm value; e.g. for Viz `linkerd viz install --set
defaultRegistry=...`.

### Go

#### A note about Go run

Our instructions use a [`bin/go-run`](bin/go-run) script in lieu `go run`. This
is a convenience script that leverages caching via `go build` to make your
build/run/debug loop faster.

In general, replace commands like this:

```bash
go run cli/main.go check
```

with this:

```bash
bin/go-run cli check
```

That is equivalent to running `linkerd check` using the code on your branch.

#### Lint

To analyze and lint the Go code using golangci-lint, run:

```bash
golangci-lint run
```

#### Formatting

All Go source code is formatted with `goimports`. The version of `goimports`
used by this project is specified in `go.mod`. To ensure you have the same
version installed, run `go install -mod=readonly
golang.org/x/tools/cmd/goimports`. It's recommended that you set your IDE or
other development tools to use `goimports`. Formatting is checked during CI by
the `bin/fmt` script.

#### Building the CLI for development

The script for building the CLI binaries using docker is
`bin/docker-build-cli-bin`. This will also be called indirectly when calling
`bin/docker-build`. By default it creates binaries for your current host's
OS/arch.

To cross-build targeting a different OS or architecture, set the environment
variable `DOCKER_TARGET` according to any of the final stages available in
[cli/Dockerfile](cli/Dockerfile).

For local development and a faster edit-build-test cycle you can build directly
without going through a docker container by calling `bin/build-cli-bin`.

If you set the environment variable `LINKERD_LOCAL_BUILD_CLI=1` then
`bin/docker-build` will use this last method for the step that builds the CLI.

#### Running the control plane for development

Linkerd2's control plane is composed of several Go microservices. You can run
these components in a Kubernetes cluster, or even locally.

To run an individual component locally, you can use the `go-run` command, and
pass in valid Kubernetes credentials via the `-kubeconfig` flag. For instance,
to run the destination service locally, run:

```bash
bin/go-run controller/cmd destination -kubeconfig ~/.kube/config -log-level debug
```

You can send test requests to the destination service using the
`destination-client` in the `controller/script` directory. For instance:

```bash
bin/go-run controller/script/destination-client -path hello.default.svc.cluster.local:80
```

##### Debugging the Tap APIService for development

The Tap APIService is a Kubernetes extension API server, so it can be
challenging to run outside the cluster. The most straightforward workflow is to
simply test changes by building and loading the container image as explained in
the [comprehensive configuration](#comprehensive) section above (in order to
just build this component use `bin/docker-build-tap`).

#### Generating CLI docs

The [documentation](https://linkerd.io/2/cli/) for the CLI tool is partially
generated from YAML. This can be generated by running the `linkerd doc` command.

### Web

This is a React app fronting a Go process. It uses webpack to bundle assets, and
postcss to transform css.

These commands assume working [Go](https://golang.org) and
[Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com) environments.

#### First time setup

1. Install [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com) and use it to install JS dependencies:

    ```bash
    brew install yarn
    bin/web setup
    ```

2. Install Linkerd on a Kubernetes cluster.

#### Run web standalone

```bash
bin/web run
```

The web server will be running on `localhost:7777`.

#### Webpack dev server

To develop with a webpack dev server:

1. Start the development server.

    ```bash
    bin/web dev
    ```

    Note: this will start up:

    - `web` on :7777. This is the golang process that serves the dashboard.
    - `webpack-dev-server` on :8080 to manage rebuilding/reloading of the
      javascript.
    - `metrics-api` is port-forwarded from the Kubernetes cluster via `kubectl`
      on :8085

2. Go to [http://localhost:7777](http://localhost:7777) to see everything
   running.

#### JavaScript dependencies

To add a JS dependency:

```bash
cd web/app
yarn add [dep]
```

#### Translations

To add a locale:

```bash
cd web/app
yarn lingui add-locale [locales...] # will create a messages.json file for new locale(s)
```

To extract message keys from existing components:

```bash
cd web/app
yarn lingui extract
...
yarn lingui compile # done automatically in bin/web run
```

Finally, make sure the new locale is also referred in the following places:

- Under the `lingui` section in `package.json`
- In the `make-plural/plurals` import in `index.js`
- In the `langOptions` object in `index.js`

### Rust

All Rust development happens in the
[`linkerd2-proxy`](https://github.com/linkerd/linkerd2-proxy) repo.

#### Docker

The `bin/docker-build-proxy` script builds the proxy by pulling a pre-published
proxy binary:

```bash
bin/docker-build-proxy
```

#### Locally built proxy

If you want to deploy a locally built proxy, you can build it in the
[`linkerd2-proxy`](https://github.com/linkerd/linkerd2-proxy) repo by running:

```bash
DOCKER_TAG=cr.l5d.io/linkerd/proxy:dev make docker
```

Then, in this repo, run:

```bash
./bin/k3d image import cr.l5d.io/linkerd/proxy:dev
```

Now, to make a pod use your image, add the following annotations to it:

```yaml
config.linkerd.io/proxy-version: dev
```

## Dependencies

### Updating protobuf dependencies

 If you make Protobuf changes, run:

 ```bash
bin/protoc-go.sh
```

### Updating ServiceProfile generated code

The [ServiceProfile client code](./controller/gen/client) is generated by
[`bin/update-codegen.sh`](bin/update-codegen.sh), which depends on [K8s
code-generator](https://github.com/kubernetes/code-generator), which does not
yet support Go Modules. To re-generate this code, check out this repo into your
`GOPATH`:

```bash
go get -u github.com/linkerd/linkerd2
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/linkerd/linkerd2
bin/update-codegen.sh
```

## Linkerd Helm chart

The Linkerd control plane chart is located in the
[`charts/linkerd2`](charts/linkerd2) folder. The [`charts/patch`](charts/patch)
chart consists of the Linkerd proxy specification, which is used by the proxy
injector to inject the proxy container. Both charts depend on the partials
subchart which can be found in the [`charts/partials`](charts/partials) folder.

Note that the `charts/linkerd2/values.yaml` file contains a placeholder
`linkerdVersionValue` that you need to replace with an appropriate string (like
`edge-20.2.2`) before proceeding.

During development, please use the [`bin/helm`](bin/helm) wrapper script to
invoke the Helm commands. For example,

```bash
bin/helm install linkerd2 charts/linkerd2
```

This ensures that you use the same Helm version as that of the Linkerd CI
system.

For general instructions on how to install the charts check out the
[docs](https://linkerd.io/2/tasks/install-helm/). You also need to supply or
generate your own certificates to use the chart, as explained in the
[Generate Certificates task](https://linkerd.io/2/tasks/generate-certificates/).

### Extensions Helm charts

Extensions provide each their own chart:

- Viz: [`viz/charts/linkerd-viz`](viz/charts/linkerd-viz)
- Multicluster:
  [`multicluster/charts/linkerd-multicluster`](multicluster/charts/linkerd-multicluster)
- Jaeger: [`jaeger/charts/linkerd-jaeger`](jaeger/charts/linkerd-jaeger)

### Making changes to the chart templates

Whenever you make changes to the files under
[`charts/linkerd2/templates`](charts/linkerd2/templates) or its dependency
[`charts/partials`](charts/partials), make sure to run
[`bin/helm-build`](bin/helm-build) which will refresh the dependencies and lint
the templates.

### Annotating values.yaml

To allow helm-docs to properly document the values in `values.yaml` a descriptive
comment is required. This can be done in two ways.
Either comment the value directly above with
`# -- This is a really nice value` where the double dashes automatically
annotates the value. Another explicit usage is to type out the value name.
`# global.MyNiceValue -- I really like this value`

### Markdown templates

In order to accommodate for extra data that might not have a proper place in the
´values.yaml´ file the corresponding ´README.md.gotmpl´ can be modified for each
chart. This template allows the standard markdown syntax as well as the go
templating functions. Checkout
[helm-docs](https://github.com/norwoodj/helm-docs) for more info.
