multicluster/charts/linkerd-multicluster/README.md, before:

# linkerd-multicluster

The Linkerd-Multicluster extension contains resources to support multicluster
linking to remote clusters

![Version: 0.0.0-undefined](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-0.0.0--undefined-informational?style=flat-square)

![AppVersion: edge-XX.X.X](https://img.shields.io/badge/AppVersion-edge--XX.X.X-informational?style=flat-square)

**Homepage:** <https://linkerd.io>

## Quickstart and documentation

You can run Linkerd on any Kubernetes cluster in a matter of seconds. See the
[Linkerd Getting Started Guide][getting-started] for how.

For more comprehensive documentation, start with the [Linkerd
docs][linkerd-docs].

## Prerequisite: Linkerd Core Control-Plane

Before installing the Linkerd Multicluster extension, The core control-plane has
to be installed first by following the [Linkerd Install
Guide](https://linkerd.io/2/tasks/install/).

## Adding Linkerd's Helm repository

```bash
# To add the repo for Linkerd edge releases:
helm repo add linkerd https://helm.linkerd.io/edge
```

## Installing the Multicluster Extension Chart

```bash
helm install linkerd-multicluster -n linkerd-multicluster --create-namespace linkerd/linkerd-multicluster
```

## Get involved

* Check out Linkerd's source code at [GitHub][linkerd2].
* Join Linkerd's [user mailing list][linkerd-users], [developer mailing
  list][linkerd-dev], and [announcements mailing list][linkerd-announce].
* Follow [@linkerd][twitter] on Twitter.
* Join the [Linkerd Slack][slack].

[getting-started]: https://linkerd.io/2/getting-started/
[linkerd2]: https://github.com/linkerd/linkerd2
[linkerd-announce]: https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-linkerd-announce
[linkerd-dev]: https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-linkerd-dev
[linkerd-docs]: https://linkerd.io/2/overview/
[linkerd-users]: https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-linkerd-users
[slack]: http://slack.linkerd.io
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/linkerd

## Requirements

Kubernetes: `>=1.22.0-0`

| Repository | Name | Version |
|------------|------|---------|
| file://../../../charts/partials | partials | 0.1.0 |

## Values

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| commonLabels | object | `{}` | Labels to apply to all resources |
| createNamespaceMetadataJob | bool | `true` | Creates a Job that adds necessary metadata to the extension's namespace during install; disable if lack of privileges require doing this manually |
| enablePSP | bool | `false` | Create Roles and RoleBindings to associate this extension's ServiceAccounts to the control plane PSP resource. This requires that `enabledPSP` is set to true on the control plane install. Note PSP has been deprecated since k8s v1.21 |
| enablePodAntiAffinity | bool | `false` | Enables Pod Anti Affinity logic to balance the placement of replicas across hosts and zones for High Availability. Enable this only when you have multiple replicas of components. |
| gateway.GID | int | `2103` | Group id under which the gateway shall be ran |
| gateway.UID | int | `2103` | User id under which the gateway shall be ran |
| gateway.deploymentAnnotations | object | `{}` | Annotations to add to the gateway deployment |
| gateway.enabled | bool | `true` | If the gateway component should be installed |
| gateway.loadBalancerClass | string | `""` | Set loadBalancerClass on gateway service |
| gateway.loadBalancerIP | string | `""` | Set loadBalancerIP on gateway service |
| gateway.loadBalancerSourceRanges | list | `[]` | Set loadBalancerSourceRanges on gateway service |
| gateway.name | string | `"linkerd-gateway"` | The name of the gateway that will be installed |
| gateway.nodeSelector | object | `{}` | Node selectors for the gateway pod |
| gateway.pauseImage | string | `"gcr.io/google_containers/pause:3.2"` | The pause container to use |
| gateway.port | int | `4143` | The port on which all the gateway will accept incoming traffic |
| gateway.probe.path | string | `"/ready"` | The path that will be used by remote clusters for determining whether the gateway is alive |
| gateway.probe.port | int | `4191` | The port used for liveliness probing |
| gateway.probe.seconds | int | `3` | The interval (in seconds) between liveness probes |
| gateway.replicas | int | `1` | Number of replicas for the gateway pod |
| gateway.serviceAnnotations | object | `{}` | Annotations to add to the gateway service |
| gateway.serviceExternalTrafficPolicy | string | `""` | Set externalTrafficPolicy on gateway service |
| gateway.serviceType | string | `"LoadBalancer"` | Service Type of gateway Service |
| gateway.terminationGracePeriodSeconds | string | `""` | Set terminationGracePeriodSeconds on gateway deployment |
| gateway.tolerations | list | `[]` | Tolerations for the gateway pod |
| identityTrustDomain | string | `"cluster.local"` | Identity Trust Domain of the certificate authority |
| imagePullPolicy | string | `"IfNotPresent"` | Docker imagePullPolicy for all multicluster components |
| imagePullSecrets | list | `[]` | For Private docker registries, authentication is needed.  Registry secrets are applied to the respective service accounts |
| linkerdNamespace | string | `"linkerd"` | Namespace of linkerd installation |
| linkerdVersion | string | `"linkerdVersionValue"` | Control plane version |
| namespaceMetadata.image.name | string | `"extension-init"` | Docker image name for the namespace-metadata instance |
| namespaceMetadata.image.pullPolicy | string | imagePullPolicy | Pull policy for the namespace-metadata instance |
| namespaceMetadata.image.registry | string | `"cr.l5d.io/linkerd"` | Docker registry for the namespace-metadata instance |
| namespaceMetadata.image.tag | string | `"v0.1.1"` | Docker image tag for the namespace-metadata instance |
| namespaceMetadata.nodeSelector | object | `{}` | Node selectors for the namespace-metadata instance |
| namespaceMetadata.tolerations | list | `[]` | Tolerations for the namespace-metadata instance |
| podLabels | object | `{}` | Additional labels to add to all pods |
| proxyOutboundPort | int | `4140` | The port on which the proxy accepts outbound traffic |
| remoteMirrorServiceAccount | bool | `true` | If the remote mirror service account should be installed |
| remoteMirrorServiceAccountName | string | `"linkerd-service-mirror-remote-access-default"` | The name of the service account used to allow remote clusters to mirror local services |
| revisionHistoryLimit | int | `10` | Specifies the number of old ReplicaSets to retain to allow rollback. |

----------------------------------------------
Autogenerated from chart metadata using [helm-docs v1.12.0](https://github.com/norwoodj/helm-docs/releases/v1.12.0)

Commit message:

Add support for federated services to the service mirror controller (#13269)
When the service mirror controller detects a service in the remote cluster which matches the federated service selector (`mirror.linkerd.io/federated=memeber` by default), it will add that service to the federated service in the local cluster named `<svc>-federated`, creating this service if it does not already exist.  To join a service to a federated service, it is added to the `multicluster.linkerd.io/remote-discovery` annotation on the federated service which contains a comma separated list of values in the form `<svc>@<cluster>`.  When a remote service no longer exists or matches the federated service selector, it is removed from the federated service by removing it from the `mutlicluster.linkerd.io/remote-discovery` annotation.

We also add a new `local-service-mirror` deployment to the Linkerd-multicluster extension which watches the local cluster for any services which match the federated service selector.  Any services in the local cluster which match will be added to the federated service by setting the `mutlicluster.linkerd.io/local-discovery` annotation on the federated service to the local service name.

Signed-off-by: Alex Leong <alex@buoyant.io>

multicluster/charts/linkerd-multicluster/README.md, after:

# linkerd-multicluster

The Linkerd-Multicluster extension contains resources to support multicluster
linking to remote clusters

![Version: 0.0.0-undefined](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-0.0.0--undefined-informational?style=flat-square)

![AppVersion: edge-XX.X.X](https://img.shields.io/badge/AppVersion-edge--XX.X.X-informational?style=flat-square)

**Homepage:** <https://linkerd.io>

## Quickstart and documentation

You can run Linkerd on any Kubernetes cluster in a matter of seconds. See the
[Linkerd Getting Started Guide][getting-started] for how.

For more comprehensive documentation, start with the [Linkerd
docs][linkerd-docs].

## Prerequisite: Linkerd Core Control-Plane

Before installing the Linkerd Multicluster extension, The core control-plane has
to be installed first by following the [Linkerd Install
Guide](https://linkerd.io/2/tasks/install/).

## Adding Linkerd's Helm repository

```bash
# To add the repo for Linkerd edge releases:
helm repo add linkerd https://helm.linkerd.io/edge
```

## Installing the Multicluster Extension Chart

```bash
helm install linkerd-multicluster -n linkerd-multicluster --create-namespace linkerd/linkerd-multicluster
```

## Get involved

* Check out Linkerd's source code at [GitHub][linkerd2].
* Join Linkerd's [user mailing list][linkerd-users], [developer mailing
  list][linkerd-dev], and [announcements mailing list][linkerd-announce].
* Follow [@linkerd][twitter] on Twitter.
* Join the [Linkerd Slack][slack].

[getting-started]: https://linkerd.io/2/getting-started/
[linkerd2]: https://github.com/linkerd/linkerd2
[linkerd-announce]: https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-linkerd-announce
[linkerd-dev]: https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-linkerd-dev
[linkerd-docs]: https://linkerd.io/2/overview/
[linkerd-users]: https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-linkerd-users
[slack]: http://slack.linkerd.io
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/linkerd

## Requirements

Kubernetes: `>=1.22.0-0`

| Repository | Name | Version |
|------------|------|---------|
| file://../../../charts/partials | partials | 0.1.0 |

## Values

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| commonLabels | object | `{}` | Labels to apply to all resources |
| createNamespaceMetadataJob | bool | `true` | Creates a Job that adds necessary metadata to the extension's namespace during install; disable if lack of privileges require doing this manually |
| enablePSP | bool | `false` | Create Roles and RoleBindings to associate this extension's ServiceAccounts to the control plane PSP resource. This requires that `enabledPSP` is set to true on the control plane install. Note PSP has been deprecated since k8s v1.21 |
| enablePodAntiAffinity | bool | `false` | Enables Pod Anti Affinity logic to balance the placement of replicas across hosts and zones for High Availability. Enable this only when you have multiple replicas of components. |
| gateway.GID | int | `2103` | Group id under which the gateway shall be ran |
| gateway.UID | int | `2103` | User id under which the gateway shall be ran |
| gateway.deploymentAnnotations | object | `{}` | Annotations to add to the gateway deployment |
| gateway.enabled | bool | `true` | If the gateway component should be installed |
| gateway.loadBalancerClass | string | `""` | Set loadBalancerClass on gateway service |
| gateway.loadBalancerIP | string | `""` | Set loadBalancerIP on gateway service |
| gateway.loadBalancerSourceRanges | list | `[]` | Set loadBalancerSourceRanges on gateway service |
| gateway.name | string | `"linkerd-gateway"` | The name of the gateway that will be installed |
| gateway.nodeSelector | object | `{}` | Node selectors for the gateway pod |
| gateway.pauseImage | string | `"gcr.io/google_containers/pause:3.2"` | The pause container to use |
| gateway.port | int | `4143` | The port on which all the gateway will accept incoming traffic |
| gateway.probe.path | string | `"/ready"` | The path that will be used by remote clusters for determining whether the gateway is alive |
| gateway.probe.port | int | `4191` | The port used for liveliness probing |
| gateway.probe.seconds | int | `3` | The interval (in seconds) between liveness probes |
| gateway.replicas | int | `1` | Number of replicas for the gateway pod |
| gateway.serviceAnnotations | object | `{}` | Annotations to add to the gateway service |
| gateway.serviceExternalTrafficPolicy | string | `""` | Set externalTrafficPolicy on gateway service |
| gateway.serviceType | string | `"LoadBalancer"` | Service Type of gateway Service |
| gateway.terminationGracePeriodSeconds | string | `""` | Set terminationGracePeriodSeconds on gateway deployment |
| gateway.tolerations | list | `[]` | Tolerations for the gateway pod |
| identityTrustDomain | string | `"cluster.local"` | Identity Trust Domain of the certificate authority |
| imagePullPolicy | string | `"IfNotPresent"` | Docker imagePullPolicy for all multicluster components |
| imagePullSecrets | list | `[]` | For Private docker registries, authentication is needed.  Registry secrets are applied to the respective service accounts |
| linkerdNamespace | string | `"linkerd"` | Namespace of linkerd installation |
| linkerdVersion | string | `"linkerdVersionValue"` | Control plane version |
| localServiceMirror.GID | int | `2103` | Group id under which the Service Mirror shall be ran |
| localServiceMirror.UID | int | `2103` | User id under which the Service Mirror shall be ran |
| localServiceMirror.enablePprof | bool | `false` | enables the use of pprof endpoints on control plane component's admin servers |
| localServiceMirror.federatedServiceSelector | string | `"mirror.linkerd.io/federated=member"` | Label selector for federated service members in the local cluster. |
| localServiceMirror.image.name | string | `"cr.l5d.io/linkerd/controller"` | Docker image for the Service mirror component (uses the Linkerd controller image) |
| localServiceMirror.image.pullPolicy | string | imagePullPolicy | Pull policy for the Service mirror container image |
| localServiceMirror.image.version | string | linkerdVersion | Tag for the Service mirror container image |
| localServiceMirror.logFormat | string | `"plain"` | Log format (`plain` or `json`) |
| localServiceMirror.logLevel | string | `"info"` | Log level for the Multicluster components |
| localServiceMirror.replicas | int | `1` | Number of local service mirror replicas to run |
| localServiceMirror.resources | object | `{}` | Resources for the Service mirror container |
| localServiceMirror.serviceMirrorRetryLimit | int | `3` | Number of times local service mirror updates are allowed to be requeued (retried) |
| namespaceMetadata.image.name | string | `"extension-init"` | Docker image name for the namespace-metadata instance |
| namespaceMetadata.image.pullPolicy | string | imagePullPolicy | Pull policy for the namespace-metadata instance |
| namespaceMetadata.image.registry | string | `"cr.l5d.io/linkerd"` | Docker registry for the namespace-metadata instance |
| namespaceMetadata.image.tag | string | `"v0.1.1"` | Docker image tag for the namespace-metadata instance |
| namespaceMetadata.nodeSelector | object | `{}` | Node selectors for the namespace-metadata instance |
| namespaceMetadata.tolerations | list | `[]` | Tolerations for the namespace-metadata instance |
| podAnnotations | object | `{}` | Additional annotations to add to all pods |
| podLabels | object | `{}` | Additional labels to add to all pods |
| proxyOutboundPort | int | `4140` | The port on which the proxy accepts outbound traffic |
| remoteMirrorServiceAccount | bool | `true` | If the remote mirror service account should be installed |
| remoteMirrorServiceAccountName | string | `"linkerd-service-mirror-remote-access-default"` | The name of the service account used to allow remote clusters to mirror local services |
| revisionHistoryLimit | int | `10` | Specifies the number of old ReplicaSets to retain to allow rollback. |

----------------------------------------------
Autogenerated from chart metadata using [helm-docs v1.12.0](https://github.com/norwoodj/helm-docs/releases/v1.12.0)
